
 Registration for e-Services Online payment facilities Policy schedule Policy status Bonus status Loan status Claims status Revival Quotation Premium due calendar Premium paid certificate Claim history Policy BondProposal form image Grievance registration Process of various services and online forms Locators FAQs New User Registered User Process for Registration on Portal For registration for Online Services on Portal, keep the following ready Policy numbers on your own life on the life of your minor children Instalment premiums under these policies without service taxGST Scanned image of PAN Card or Passport, with file size less than 100 KB The scanned image should be preferably in .jpg or .jpeg format. However, images with the following formats can also be uploaded  .bmp, .png, gif, .tiff Visit  and Click on Customer Portal If you have not registered earlier for Customer Portal, click on New user In the next screen, you will be required to choose the user id and password of your choice and submit. Login through this newly created user id and click on the option of Basic Services - Add Policy Enrol all your remaining policies. At this stage all the Basic Services will be available under your enrolled policies. Thereafter, follow the 3 step process for registration for Premier Services Registration for Premier Services If you are already a registered user, login with your user-id and password for LIC-Portal. Follow simple 3 step process-Registration, Printing and Uploading of documents. Step 1Filling up Registration Form Basic details including Date of Birth, mobile no, e-mail id provided at the time of registering as a Portal user will be automatically incorporated in the registration form. Provide PAN Card or Passport details. All the eligible policy numbers enrolled policies on own life and on the lives of minor children will be displayed at this stage. For policies on the life of spouse, separate registration will be required to be done by himher. Step 2  Print Form Click on PrintSave form and print the registration form. Check the details of the registration form and sign it. Create a scanned image of the signed form and any one of the KYC documents PAN or Passport The file size of the scanned image should be maximum 100 KB. The scanned image should be created in any one of the following formats .bmp, .png, .jpg, .jpeg, .gif, .tiff Step 3  Upload Form Check status Upload the scanned image of the registration form through the option provided. Upload the scanned image of PAN Card or Passport. After the documents are uploaded, click on submit the request. An acknowledgement SMS and e-mail will be sent to the mobilee-mail id provided in the registration form. This request will be sent for verification to our Customer Zone. After verification by our Customer Zone Official within 3 working days from the date of registration, an acknowledgement e-mail and SMS will be sent to you.  Now you are ready to avail our Premier Services. Following Services will be activated only after your request for Premier Services is validated by the Czee Official a. View Policy and Proposal images b. View Claim history c. Service Request Registration for i. Online Loan ii. Online Change of Address iii. PAN Registration iv. Online Switching under ULIP Plans v. Online Change of Mode Online payment facilities Facility provided to pay renewal premium due, loan-interest due and repayment of loan through Net Banking Debit Card UPI Credit Card Only for Premium Payment Renewal premium can be paid for all in force policies, excluding policies under Salary Saving Scheme policies registered for premium payment through NACH. Payment of premium is allowed from1 month prior to the due date till the policy is in force. Loan interest cannot be paid under VPBY and PMVVY plan policies. All RBI approved Credit Only for Premium Payment and Debit cards. Policy schedule First page of policy bond which constitutes policy schedule, will be displayed. Policy status Basic details of policy will be displayed such as Plan-Term, Sum Assured, Date of Commencement, First unpaid premium etc. Bonus status Total bonus accumulated under the policy will be displayed. This bonus is payable only at the time of final payment under the policy. Loan status Present loan position will be displayed such as total loan outstanding under the policy, due up to which loan interest paid etc. Claims status This option will display date of Survival Benefit if any or Maturity Benefit due under the policy during the policy term. Revival Quotation Revival quotation will be provided in case of lapsed policies. Premium due calendar Details of premiums due during the year month wise will be displayed. Premium paid certificate  Individual policy  It provides history of premiums paid under a single policy during the financial year. available for 3 fin. years including the current fin. year. Consolidated -- It provides history of premiums paid under all the registered own life policies of the user, excluding spouse and children policies during the financial year. available for 3 fin. years including the current fin. year. Claim history This option will provide details of any claim paid under the policy with NEFTcheque details, date of payment and amount of payment. Policy BondProposal form image Scanned image of policy bond as well as proposal form will be displayed for enrolled policies. Grievance registration Facility to register a complaintgrievance with the insurer I Grievance Redressal Officers Grievance Redressal Officers have been designated at all levels of the Organisation  At the Branch level  The SrBranch manager Click here for the list  in  At the Divisional level  Manager, CRM Click here for the list At the Zonal level The Regional Manager CRM Click here for the list  Content is in English232 KB At the Central level The Executive Director CRM Click here for the list For PGS policies Process of various services and online forms Claims Under Regular Life Insurance Policies Death Claims The person legally entitled to receive the policy monies should give intimation of death of the policyholder to the servicing Branch. The requirement for the claim are as given below Claim Form 'A' in Form No.3783. If policy has run for 3 years or more from date or risk, claim form no.3783A may be used Certified extract from death register. The original policy document with Deeds of assignments, if any. Additional requirement may be required under a policy according to the status of the policy. Please contact our servicing Branch for details. Click here for Claim Form 'A' in Form No.3783.  Content is in English8.49 KB Click here for Claim From no.3783A  Content is in English7.99 KB Maturity Claims It is our endeavour to settle your maturity claim on or before the due date. The servicing Branch usually sends maturity claim intimations two months in advance. Please submit your Discharged Receipt in Form No.3825 with original policy document atleast one month before the due date so that the payment is received before the due date of maturity claim. If you have not received any intimation for your claim due in the next two months, please contact the servicing Branch immediately. Click here to download Form No. 3825  Content is in English313 KB Survival Benefit Claims forms Click here to download Form No.5180  Content is in English36.9 KB Mandate Form For Payment Of LICI Premium By NACH Click here to download Mandate form for LIC premium by NACH  Content is in English58.9 KB Revival Forms Revival of Lapsed Policy- Form no. 680 Click here to download  Content is in English144 KB Revival of Lapsed policy - Form no. 700 Click here to download  Content is in English157 KB Revival of lapsed Policy- Form no. 720 Click here to download  Content is in English149 KB Application Form For Annuity Card For annuitants of Mumbai P GS UNIT Click here to download Page 1  Content is in English57.5 KB Click here to download Page 2  Content is in English82.2 KB Claim forms are in PDF format. Adobe Acrobat Reader is a free software that lets you view and print Adobe Portable Document FormatPDF files. Click here to download Adobe Acrobat Reader IPP-NEFT MANDATE FORM Click here to download  Content is in English30.1 KB Certificate of Existence Click here to download  Content is in English28.9 KB IPP-Letter of Indemnity Click here to download  Content is in English28.5 KB Neft Mandate Form Click here to download  Content is in English62.9 KB Health Insurance Forms Click here to download Aadhar Seeding Form Click here to download Existence Certificate format Click here to download Locators LIC Branch locator Agent Locator Doctor Locator Premium payment centers Other than LIC Branch Offices Premium points Life Plus centers APOnline MPOnline Axis Bank Branches Corporation Bank Branches CUB Branches CSC Centers Frequently Asked Questions LICs e-Services Do I have to pay any charges for e-Services? We are delighted to offer these facilities free of charge to our valuable customers. Who can avail LICs e-Services? All our valuable customers who have a policy on hisher life or on the life of hisher minor children. Registration on LIC Portal is mandatory for availing LICs e-Services. How do I register for e-services? a. If already registered on LIC Portal Click on e-Services, login with your user-id and password. Register your policies for availing the e-services by filling up the form provided. Print the form, sign it and upload the scanned image of the form. Upload the scanned image of PAN Card or Aadhaar Card or Passport. The file size of the scanned image should be less than 100 KB and the image should be in any of the following formats .bmp, .png, .jpg, .jpeg, .gif, .tiff After verification by our offices, an acknowledgement e-mail and SMS will be sent to you. Now you are ready to avail our e-services. b. If not registered on LIC Portal Visit  , click on the tab new User, select your own user-id and password and provide all the necessary information. Now you are a registered Portal user. For availing e-Services, click on the tab e-Services, login with the user-id created and register your policies for availing the e-services by filling up the form provided. Print the form, sign it and upload the scanned image of the form. Upload the scanned image of PAN Card or Aadhaar Card or Passport After verification by our offices, an acknowledgement e-mail and SMS will be sent to you. Now you are ready to avail our e-services. Can I add policies on the lives of my family members? You can register policies on the life of your minor children in addition to policies on your own life. As soon as the children become major, separate user-id needs to be created for them to avail e-services for the policies on their lives. How do I add my new policy number for e-Services? Login through your user-id and add the new policies through Enroll policies option provided on the Home Page of LICs e-Services. In case of any problems encountered during registration for e-Services, whom to contact for assistance? Any of our 73 Customer Zones can be contacted between 8 am to 8 pm on weekdays working days only. List of phone numbers and email ids is available on our website  Website Last modified date  Fri, 27 Jun 2025 053755 0000 Menu Display Plan NAV Foreign Units 1. UK 2. SriLanka 3. Fiji 4. Mauritius 5. Bahrain 6. Nepal 7. Kenindia Assurance 8. SICCI 9. Singapore 10. Bangladesh LIC Associates  Subsidiaries 1. Associate Companies 2. Subsidiaries Companies LIC Quick Tips Things you must know Why Life Insurance Why Invest Go Mobile Website Last Updated on  05122023 Menu Display Contact Us 91-22-68276827 91-8976862090 Branch Locator Contact Us Anti-Bribery And Anti-Corruption Policy Anti Fraud Policy Bima Bharosa Careers Citizens Charter Clia Scheme Benefits Copyright Policy Customer Education Central Vigilance Commission Website Link Download Forms View our Ads Menu Display 91-22-68276827 Employees Corner Enquiry of Outstanding Claims for the Current Year Equal Opportunity Policy Frequently Asked Questions Feedback Glossary Golden Jubilee Foundation - Community Development Grievance Redressal Help Menu Display 91-8976862090 Hyperlink Policy International Operations Associates Investee-AMRIT IRDAI Consumer Education Join Our Team LIC Act News NRI Centre LIC on Social Media Menu Display Branch Locator Photo Gallery Policy for protection of interests of policyholders Press-Release Privacy Policy Property Rajbhasha Patrika Retired Employees Portal RTI Center Sitemap Stewardship Policy  Disclosure Menu Display Swachh Bharat Campaign Swavalamban Tender Award Tenders Terms  Conditions Unclaimed Amounts of Policyholders Underwriting Philosophy Welcome Kit LIC Pension Fund Limited LIC Cards Services Limited LIC Mutual Fund Trustee Private Limited LIC Mutual Fund Asset Management Limited LIC Housing Finance Limited LICHFL Asset Management Company Limited Hidden For any grievances, email at cocomplaintslicindia.com Corporate Office  Life Insurance Corporation of India 'Yogakshema' , Jeevan Bima Marg, P.O. Box No19953, Mumbai  400 021. IRDAI Reg No- 512 For any query regarding this website, please contact the Web Information Manager Smt. Himali Ashish Manjrekar , Administrative Officer, cocomplaintslicindia.com Content on this website is published and managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. Powered by PECS on Liferay DXP Copyright  2025 - All Rights Reserved - Official Website of Life Insurance Corporation of India. Disclaimer Disclaimer - Research Disclaimer Disclaimer - Twitter Term  Conditions Sitemap Privacy policy




LIC Policy Conditions - Understanding Key Terms for Policyholders  Official website of Life Insurance Corporation of India. Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Search Menu Display Search Search Skip to main content 8976862090 91-22-68276827 Branch Locator Language Selector english  beta  A A A- A A About Us History Objectives Of LIC MissionVision Whos who Organization Chart Operations Know About Your Life Insurance Help us to serve you better Information Technology and LIC Awards Archives Awards and Achievements Products Insurance Plans Endowment Plans Whole Life Plans Money Back Plans Term Assurance Plans Riders Pension Plans Unit Linked Plans Micro Insurance Plans Withdrawn Plans Group Business Contact for Group Insurance Scheme Group CustomerAnnuitant Login 87A Declaration for Group Annuity Pension  Group Schemes New Product Pension  Group Schemes Withdrawn Products Gratuity Plus NAV Customer Services Customers Corner Claims settlement requirements Premium Payment Payment at Cash Counter Payment Through Alternate Channels LIC PORTAL Pay Premium through LIC Credit Card Spurious Calls Update Your Contact details  Offline Unclaimed Amounts of Policyholders Bima Bharosa Satarkata Shikayat Dwar Bonus Information Policy Status Phone Help Line Insurance Selector Policy Guidelines  Helpline Tax Benefit Investor Relations NRI NRI Centre NRI Customers FATCACRS QuickPay-Premium Access Country List NPS - Subscriber Corner Pay Premium Login Customer Portal NRI Customer Portal Agent Portal Want to be an LIC Agent Merchant Portal Employee Portal Group CustomerAnnuitant Login Group MasterPolicyholder Portal Retired Employees Portal POLICY CONDITION Breadcrumb Home Customer Services Policy Guidelines  Helpline Policy Conditions POLICY CONDITIONS VARIOUS TYPE OF POLICY CONDITION AND THEIR IMPLICATION We welcome you as a policyholder and as a prospective customer to our customer service section. This section will guide you through the various intricacies of a life insurance contract and the facts that you must know to make the best out of your life insurance policy. Please read our guidelines immediately.  Payment of Premiums  Non-forfeiture regulations  Forfeiture in certain events  Suicide  Guaranteed Surrender Value  Salary Saving Scheme  Alterations  Duplicate Policy  Age Proof accepted by LIC  Alternative Age Proofs which are accepted  Nomination  Assignment  Re-assignment  Concessions for claims during the lapsed period  Revivals  Policy Loans  Claims settlement procedure  Maturity Claims  Death Claims  Double Accident Benefit Claims  Disability Benefit Claims  Claims Review Committees  Insurance Ombudsman Payment of Premiums A grace period of one month but not less than 30 days is allowed where the mode of payment is yearly, half-yearly or quarterly and 15 days for monthly payments. If death occurs within this period, the life assured is covered for full sum assured. Non-forfeiture regulations If the policy has run for atleast 3 full years and subsequent premiums have not been paid the policy shall not be void but the sum assured will be reduced to a sum which will bear the same ratio as to the number of premiums paid bear to the total number of premiums payable.The concessions regarding claim in the above case is explained in the appropriate section. Forfeiture in certain events In case of untrue or incorrect statement contained in the proposal, personal statement, declaration and connected documents or any material information with held, subject to the provision of Section 45 of the Insurance Act 1938, wherever applicable, the policy shall be declared void and all claims to any benefits in virtue thereof shall cease. Suicide The policy shall be void, if the Life Assured commits suicide whether sane or insane at the time at any time or after the date on which the risk under the policy has commenced but before the expiry of one year from the date of commencement of the policy. Guaranteed Surrender Value After payment of premiums for at least three years, the Surrender Value allowed under the policy is equal to 30 of the total premiums paid excluding premiums for the 1st year and all extra premiums. Salary Saving Scheme The rate of installment premium shown in the schedule of the policy will remain constant as long as the employee continues with the employer given in the proposal. On leaving the employment of said employer the policyholder should intimate the Corporation. In case of the Salary Saving Scheme being withdrawn by the said employer, the Corporation will intimate the same to the policyholder. Thereafter the 5 rebate given under Salary Saving Scheme will be withdrawn. Alterations After the policy is issued, the policyholder in a number of cases finds the terms not suitable to him and desires to change them. LIC allows certain types of alterations during the lifetime of the policy. However, no alteration is permitted within one year of the commencement of the policy with some exceptions. The following alterations are allowed.  Alteration in class or term.  Reduction in the Sum Assured  Alteration in the mode of payment of premiums  Removal of an extra premium  Alteration from without profit plan to with profit plan  Alternation in name  Correction in policies  Settlement option of payment of sum assured by installments  Grant of accident benefit  Grant of premium waiver benefit under CDA policies  Alteration in currency and place of payment of policy monies A fee for the change or alteration in the policy is charged by the Corporation called quotation fee and no additional fee is charged for giving effect to the alteration. Duplicate Policy A duplicate policy confers on its owner the same rights and privileges as the original policy. The following are the requirements for issuing a duplicate policy 1. Indemnity bond duly notarized as per requisite stamp value AND 2. Any one of the photo identity proof Passport, PAN card, Voters identity card, Driving License, Personal identification card issued by Govt. organization or reputed commercial organization AND 3. Any one of the residence proof Telephone bill, Bank AC statement, Letter from any recognized public authority, Electricity Bill, ration Card, Valid lease agreement along with rent receipt which is not more than 3 months old, Certificate from employer as a proof of residence. 4. Requisite fee towards policy preparation charges to be paid at the Branch Cash counter. However, in following cases Policyholder has to visit to Branch Office to know the requirements 1. Policies under which absolute assignment is operational or 2. In death claim cases where the title is open and waiver of strict legal evidence of title is to be considered. Age Proof accepted by LIC The Proofs of age, which are generally acceptable to the Corporation, are as under  Certified extract from Municipal or other records made at the time of birth.  Certificate of Baptism or certified extract from family Bible if it contains age or date of birth.  Certified extract from School or College if age or date of birth is stated therein.  Certified extract from Service Register in case of Govt. employees and employees of Quasi-Govt. institutions including Public Limited Companies and Pass port issued by the Pass port Authorities in India. Alternative Age Proofs which are accepted  Marriage certificate in the case of Roman Catholics issued by Roman Catholic Church.  Certified extracts from the Service Registers of Commercial Institutions or Industrial Undertakings provided it is specifically mentioned in such extracts that conclusive evidence of age was produced at the time of recruitment of the employee.  Certificate of Birth granted by Syedna v. Molana Badruddin Sahib of Baroda  Identity Cards issued by Defence Department.  A true copy of the University Certificate or of MatriculationHigher Secondary Education, S.S.L. Certificate issued by a Board set up by a StateCentral Government.  Non- standard age proof like Horoscope, Service Record where age is not verified at the time of entry, E.S.I.S. Card, Marriage Certificate in case of Muslim Proposer, Elders Declaration, Self-declaration and Certificate by Village Panchayats are accepted subject to certain rules. Nomination The nominee is statutorily recognized as a payee who can give a valid discharge to the Corporation for the payment of policy monies. Nomination will be incorporated in the text of the policy at the time of its issue. After the policy is prepared and issued and if no Nomination has been incorporated the assured can ordinarily affect the nomination only by an endorsement on the policy itself. A nomination made in this manner is required to be notified to the Corporation and registered by it in its records. A nomination is not required to be stamped. Any change or cancellation of nomination should be given in writing only by the Life Assured. Nomination under Joint Life Policy can only be a joint nomination. Nomination in favor of a stranger can be made subject to certain conditions. Nomination in favour of wife and children as a class is not valid. Specific names of the existing wife and children should be mentioned. . Where the nominee is a minor, an appointee has to be appointed to receive the monies in the event of the assureds death during the minority of the nominee. No nomination can be made under a policy financed from HUF funds. In the case of first endorsement of nomination the date of registration of nomination will be the date of receipt of the policy by the servicing office and in case of any other nomination or cancellation or change thereof, the date of receipt of the policy andor of notice whichever is later, will be the date of registration. Assignment An assignment has an effect of directly transferring the rights of the transferor in respect of the property transferred. Immediately on execution of an assignment of the Policy of life assurance the assignor forgoes all his rights, title and interest in the Policy to the assignee. The premiumloan interest notices etc. in such cases will be sent to the assignee. In case the assignment is made in favor of public bodies, institutions, trust etc., premium noticesreceipts will be addressed to the official who has been designated by the institutions as a person to receive such notice An assignment of a life insurance policy once validly executed, cannot be cancelled or rendered in effectual by the assignor. Scoring of such assignments or super scribing words like 'cancelled' on such assignment does not annul the assignment. And the only way to cancel such assignment would be to get it re-assigned by the assignee in favor of the assignor. There are two types of assignments 1. Conditional Assignment whereby the assignor and the assignee may agree that on the happening of a specified event which does not depend on the will of the assignor, the assignment will be suspended or revoked wholly or in part. 2. Absolute Assignment whereby all the rights, title and interest which the assignor has in the policy passes on to the assignee without reversion to the assignor or his estate in any event. Re-assignment An assignee may during the term of policy reassign the interest in the policy to the assignor. Such reassignment would have the effect of cancelling the assignment in favour of assignee and after the reassignment is executed on policy document, the right, title and interest under the policy would revert to the assignor. Concessions for claims during the lapsed period 1. If the policyholder has paid premiums for atleast 3 full years and subsequently discontinued paying premiums, and in the event of death of the life assured within six months from the due date of the first unpaid premium, the policy money will be paid in full after deduction of the unpaid premiums, with interest upto date of the death. 2. If the policyholder has paid premiums for atleast 5 full years and subsequently discontinued paying premiums and in the event of death of the life assured within 12 months from the due date of first unpaid premium, the policy money will be paid in full after deducting the unpaid premiums, with interest upto date of the death. Revivals If premiums under a policy are not paid within Days of Grace, the policy lapses. A lapsed policy can be revived as per the plan conditions on submission of proof of continued insurability to the satisfaction of the Corporation and payment of all arrears of premiums together with interest at such rate as fixed by the Corporation from time to time. The Corporation however reserves the right to accept at original terms, accept with modified terms or decline revival of a discontinued policy. The revival of the discontinued policy shall take effect only after the same is approved by the Corporation. The cost of Medical Reports, including Special Reports, if any, required for the purpose of Revival of the policy shall be borne by the Life Assured. Policy Loans The Corporation can grant a loan to the policyholder against his policy as per the terms and conditions applicable to the policy. The requirements for granting a loan are as under  a Application for loan with an endorsement of terms and conditions of the loan being placed on the policy. b Policy to be assigned absolutely in favour of the Corporation c A receipt for the loan amount The maximum loan amount available under the policy is 90 of the Surrender Value of the policy 85 in case of paid up policies including cash value of bonus. "Provision has also been made on Customer Portal for registration of request for Loan for the policyholders registered for Premier Services. After registration of request, the Loan documents can be submitted to any nearby LIC Branch Office."  Loans are granted on policies as per Conditions and Privileges printed on the back of the Policy Bond.  It is mentioned in the policy whether a particular policy is with or without loan facility.  The rate of interest charged on policy loan is declared by the Corporation every year and they are plan specific.  Interest on loan is payable half yearly. The minimum period for which a loan can be granted is six months from the date of its payment. If repayment of loan is desired within this period the interest for the minimum period of six months will have to be paid. In case the policy becomes a claim either by maturity or death within six months from the date of loan interest will be charged only upto the date of maturitydeath. Claims settlement procedure The settlement of claims is a very important aspect of service to the policyholders. Hence, the Corporation has laid great emphasis on expeditious settlement of Maturity as well as Death Claims. The procedure for settlement of maturity and death claims is detailed below  Maturity Claims 1 In case of Endowment type of Policies, amount is payable at the end of the policy period. The Branch Office which services the policy sends out a letter informing the date on which the policy monies are payable to the policyholder at least two months before the due date of payment. The policyholder is requested to return the Discharge Form duly completed along with the Policy Document, NEFT Mandate Form Bank Ac Particulars with supporting proof, KYC requirements etc. . On receipt of these documents payment is processed in advance so that maturity amount gets credited to the policyholders bank AC on the due date. 2 Some Plans like Money Back Policies provide for periodical payments to the policyholders provided premium due under the policies are paid up to the anniversary due for Survival Benefit. In these cases where amount payable is up to Rs.500,000-,payments are released without calling for the Discharge Receipt or Policy Document. Survival Benefit under Jeevan Anand policies up to Sum assured Rs. 200000- is also released without calling for policy bond or discharge form. However, in case of higher amounts these two requirements are insisted upon. Death Claims The death claim amount is payable in case of policies where premiums are paid up-to-date or where the death occurs within the days of grace. On receipt of intimation of death of the Life Assured the Branch Office calls for the following requirements a Claim form A  Claimants Statement giving details of the deceased and the claimant. b Certified extract from Death Register c Documentary proof of age, if age is not admitted d Evidence of title to the deceaseds estate if the policy is not nominated, assigned or issued under M.W.P. Act. e Original Policy Document The following additional forms are called for if death occurs within three years from the date of risk or from date of revivalreinstatement. a Claim Form B  Medical Attendants Certificate to be completed by the Medical Attendant of the deceased during hisher last illness b Claim Form B1  if the life assured received treatment in a hospital c Claim form B2  to be completed by the Medical Attendant who treated the deceased life assured prior to his last illness. d Claim Form C  Certificate of Identity and burial or cremation to be completed and signed by a person of known character and responsibility e Claim form E  Certificate by Employer if the assured was employed person. f Certified copies of the First Information Report, the Post-mortem report and Police Investigation Report if death was due to accident or unnatural cause. These additional forms are required to satisfy ourselves on the genuineness of the claim, i.e., no material information that would have affected our acceptance of proposal has been withheld by the deceased at the time of proposal. Further, these forms also help us at the time of investigation by the officials of the Corporation. Double Accident Benefit Claims Double Accident Benefit is provided as an additional benefit to the life insurance cover. For this purpose an extra premium of Rs.1- per Rs.1000- S.A is charged. For claiming the benefits under the Accident Benefit the claimant has to produce the proof to the satisfaction of the Corporation that the accident is defined as per the policy conditions. Normally for claiming this benefit documents like FIR, Post-mortem Report are insisted upon. Disability Benefit Claims Disability benefit claims consist of waiver of future premiums under the policy and extended disability benefit consisting in addition of a monthly benefit payment as per policy conditions. The essential condition for claiming this benefit is that the disability is total and permanent so as to preclude him from earning any wagecompensation or profit as a result of the accident Claims Review Committees The Corporation settles a large number of Death Claims every year. Only in case of fraudulent suppression of material information is the liability repudiated. This is to ensure that claims are not paid to fraudulent persons at the cost of honest policyholders. The number of Death Claims repudiated is, however, very small. Even in these cases, an opportunity is given to the claimant to make a representation for consideration by the Review Committees of the Zonal office and the Central Office. As a result of such review, depending on the merits of each case, appropriate decisions are taken. The Claims Review Committees of the Central and Zonal Offices have among their Members, a retired High CourtDistrict Court Judge. This has helped providing transparency and confidence in our operations and has resulted in greater satisfaction among claimants, policyholders and public. Insurance Ombudsman  The Grievance Redressal Machinery has been further expanded with the appointment of Insurance Ombudsman at different centers by the Government of India. At present there are 12 centres operating all over the country.  Following type of complaints fall within the purview of the Ombdusman a any partial or total repudiation of claims by an insurer b any dispute in regard to premiums paid if payable in terms of the policy c any dispute on the legal construction of the policies in so far as such disputes relate to claims d delay in settlement of claims enon-issue of any insurance document to customers after receipt of premium.  Policyholder can approach the Insurance Ombudsman for the redressal of their complaints free of cost. Website Last modified date  Tue, 01 Apr 2025 104302 0000 Menu Display Plan NAV Foreign Units 1. UK 2. SriLanka 3. Fiji 4. Mauritius 5. Bahrain 6. Nepal 7. Kenindia Assurance 8. SICCI 9. Singapore 10. Bangladesh LIC Associates  Subsidiaries 1. Associate Companies 2. Subsidiaries Companies LIC Quick Tips Things you must know Why Life Insurance Why Invest Go Mobile Website Last Updated on  05122023 Menu Display Contact Us 91-22-68276827 91-8976862090 Branch Locator Contact Us Anti-Bribery And Anti-Corruption Policy Anti Fraud Policy Bima Bharosa Careers Citizens Charter Clia Scheme Benefits Copyright Policy Customer Education Central Vigilance Commission Website Link Download Forms View our Ads Menu Display 91-22-68276827 Employees Corner Enquiry of Outstanding Claims for the Current Year Equal Opportunity Policy Frequently Asked Questions Feedback Glossary Golden Jubilee Foundation - Community Development Grievance Redressal Help Menu Display 91-8976862090 Hyperlink Policy International Operations Associates Investee-AMRIT IRDAI Consumer Education Join Our Team LIC Act News NRI Centre LIC on Social Media Menu Display Branch Locator Photo Gallery Policy for protection of interests of policyholders Press-Release Privacy Policy Property Rajbhasha Patrika Retired Employees Portal RTI Center Sitemap Stewardship Policy  Disclosure Menu Display Swachh Bharat Campaign Swavalamban Tender Award Tenders Terms  Conditions Unclaimed Amounts of Policyholders Underwriting Philosophy Welcome Kit LIC Pension Fund Limited LIC Cards Services Limited LIC Mutual Fund Trustee Private Limited LIC Mutual Fund Asset Management Limited LIC Housing Finance Limited LICHFL Asset Management Company Limited Hidden For any grievances, email at cocomplaintslicindia.com Corporate Office  Life Insurance Corporation of India 'Yogakshema' , Jeevan Bima Marg, P.O. Box No19953, Mumbai  400 021. IRDAI Reg No- 512 For any query regarding this website, please contact the Web Information Manager Smt. Himali Ashish Manjrekar , Administrative Officer, cocomplaintslicindia.com Content on this website is published and managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. Powered by PECS on Liferay DXP Copyright  2025 - All Rights Reserved - Official Website of Life Insurance Corporation of India. Disclaimer Disclaimer - Research Disclaimer Disclaimer - Twitter Term  Conditions Sitemap Privacy policy


LIC Policy Guidelines For Policy Holders  Official website of Life Insurance Corporation of India. Navigation Skip to Content Skip to Search Menu Display Search Search Skip to main content 8976862090 91-22-68276827 Branch Locator Language Selector english  beta  A A A- A A About Us History Objectives Of LIC MissionVision Whos who Organization Chart Operations Know About Your Life Insurance Help us to serve you better Information Technology and LIC Awards Archives Awards and Achievements Products Insurance Plans Endowment Plans Whole Life Plans Money Back Plans Term Assurance Plans Riders Pension Plans Unit Linked Plans Micro Insurance Plans Withdrawn Plans Group Business Contact for Group Insurance Scheme Group CustomerAnnuitant Login 87A Declaration for Group Annuity Pension  Group Schemes New Product Pension  Group Schemes Withdrawn Products Gratuity Plus NAV Customer Services Customers Corner Claims settlement requirements Premium Payment Payment at Cash Counter Payment Through Alternate Channels LIC PORTAL Pay Premium through LIC Credit Card Spurious Calls Update Your Contact details  Offline Unclaimed Amounts of Policyholders Bima Bharosa Satarkata Shikayat Dwar Bonus Information Policy Status Phone Help Line Insurance Selector Policy Guidelines  Helpline Tax Benefit Investor Relations NRI NRI Centre NRI Customers FATCACRS QuickPay-Premium Access Country List NPS - Subscriber Corner Pay Premium Login Customer Portal NRI Customer Portal Agent Portal Want to be an LIC Agent Merchant Portal Employee Portal Group CustomerAnnuitant Login Group MasterPolicyholder Portal Retired Employees Portal Policy Guidelines  Helpline Breadcrumb Home Customer Services Policy Guidelines  Helpline Policy Guidelines  Helpline Guidelines For Policy Holders We welcome you as a policyholder and as a prospective customer to our customer service section. This section will guide you through the various intricacies of a life insurance contract and the facts that you must know to make the best out of your life insurance policy. Please read our guidelines carefully. Your Policy Bond And Its Safety Your Policy Number Policy Conditions Alterations In Policy If Your Policy Is Lost Your Contact Address  Keep Us Posted Without Fail Admission Of Age Nomination Assignment When To Pay The Premiums Grace Period For Premium Payment How And Where To Pay The Premiums Policy Status  Where Available Revival Of Lapsed Policies Availing Loans On Policies Surrender Value Maturity, Survival Benefits, Disability And Death Claims Policies Under Salary Savings Scheme Helpline Your Policy Bond And Its Safety The policy bond is the document that is given to you after we accept your proposal for insurance. The risk coverage commences after acceptance of your proposal and the conditions and privileges of your policy are mentioned in the policy bond. This is an important document which would be referred to for various servicing interactions with you  Keep the policy bond safe. It will be required at the time of settlement of claims on the policy. You will also require it if you are availing a loan or want to assign the policy. Inform your spouseParentsChildren as to where the policy is kept. In case you are handing over the policy bond to any person or office, please take a written acknowledgement. Keep a Photostat copy of the policy for your reference. Your Policy Number The policy number is consisting of nine digits and can be found at the top left hand corner of the schedule of your policy bond. This is a unique identification number that distinguishes your policies from other policies and will remain unchanged throughout the lifetime of the policy. Remember to quote the policy number every time in your correspondence, as it helps us to locate your records for reference. Policy Conditions Every policy is taken for different types of needs therefore the conditions for your policy will vary according to the Plan and Term of the policy. The policy schedule contains on the first page of your policy, like the ones mentioned above as well as other information like nominee, your address etc. It also shows the date of commencement of your policy, date of birth, date of maturity, due dates and months in which the renewal premiums are to be paid etc. The second page onwards carries the various policy conditions like risk coverage, additional risks coverage if opted for, standard benefits that are available for all policies, accident benefit if opted for, exclusion of risks if any and other conditions that govern the contract of insurance. Apart from death benefits there are other standard benefits and benefits opted by the policyholder, which you might want to familiarize yourself with  Click here to know more about various types of policy conditions and their implications. Alterations In Policy There may be instances when you would like to make alterations in your policy like change of premium payment mode, reduction in premium paying term etc. Your applications may be given in writing to the branch that services your policy for our further action. There are different types of alterations that are allowed on our life insurance policies Click here to know more about alterations. If Your Policy Is Lost Kindly make a thorough search before concluding that you have lost the policy bond. Look for the same within your residence, among your investment papers, at your office and even with your agent to whom you might have entrusted the document for some reason. It could have been even pledged with LICany other financial institution for availing a loan by you. LIC retains the policy bond when you go in for a loan against the policy. Make sure that the document you are searching is not one that has already been assigned to LIC, or to another financial institution. If the policy bond is partially destroyed due to natural causes like, fire, flood, etc, the remaining portion may be returned as evidence of loss of policy to LIC, while applying for a duplicate policy. In case you are sure that the policy bond is untraceable due to unknown causes, there is a simple procedure to comply with while applying for the duplicate policy at the branch that services your policy  Click here to know about obtaining duplicate policies. Your Contact Address  Keep Us Posted Without Fail Your address is very important for us. Without your latest address we would not be in a position to contact you for any service offering. We would not like to keep any benefit that is due to you pending for want of this very important information. Whenever you shift residences, please inform the new address to us. Otherwise any communication we send to you, like premium notices, discharge vouchers for maturity and survival benefits etc., will get delayed in reaching you. LIC provides for change of addresses, inclusion of telephone numbers, mobile numbers and email addresses in your contact addresses information. Kindly inform your servicing branch to incorporate the same in your policy records. Admission Of Age Check your policy bond and see if your date of birth is correctly given therein. This is one of the factors on which the premiums you pay for your policy is arrived at. This would also form the basis of all future policies you might avail from us. In case your earlier policies do not have your date of birth incorporated and you do have a date of birth certificate issued by the competent authority, you may send an attested copy of the same to us, with a request to admit your age  Click here to find out the certificates of age that LIC accepts. Nomination Ensure that the nominees name is correctly incorporated in the policy bond. You may change the nomination in your policy any time during the lifetime of the policy In case you have not included the name of the nominee till now, please do not delay inform us your nomination immediately. Kindly note that the change of nomination has to be done in the branch that services your policy. The nominee is the person to whom the insurance claim amounts would be payable, in case anything unfortunate within the purview of the policy conditions happens to you. The policy is usually taken by you to benefit your family  nominate the persons wholl have the welfare of your family in your absence the usual preferences being spouse and children. You may nominate even minors like your children, in which case you have to name another person wholl have the welfare of the minor children, as an appointee Click here to know more about nomination. Assignment In case you are raising a loan against your policy from LIC or any other financial institution, your policy would have to be assigned to LIC or the financial institution. When you assign the policy the title of the policy is shifted from your name to that of the institution. The policy would be reassigned to you on the repayment of the loan. A fresh nomination should be done after reassignment of the policy. Assignment of policies can be done even when a loan is not required or for some special purposes To learn more about assignment Click here . When To Pay The Premiums Remember to pay your premium in time, even if our notices do not reach you. There may be a postal delay. LIC usually sends premium notices one month in advance to the due month of the premium. The due months of the premium are given in front page of the Policy bond. In case you have not paid the premium within the due date there is still time for you to make the payments without payment of interest on the premium. This period is called the grace period. With the exception of some plans The grace period for policies where the premium payment mode is monthly is 15 days from the due date. The grace period for policies where the premium payment mode is quarterly, half-yearly or yearly is one month but not less than30 days. How And Where To Pay The Premiums By cash, local cheque subject to realization of cheque, Demand Draft at Branch Office. You can pay your premiums at any of our Branches as 100 of our Branches are networked. A policyholder can pay premium online without visiting the servicing branch. The option is available in CUSTOMER PORTAL under Online Payments Tab. Policyholder can also pay it by using PAY DIRECT option after keying in relevant information like Policy number, Insurance Premium, Date of Birth, Mobile number and Email id. E-Receipt will be sent to the email id registered by the policyholder and it will also be available in hisher Portal account. LIC premiums can be paid by using Net Banking accounts with following banks For Authorized Banks Click Here. Other modes of payment are Debit-Cards VISAMASTERRUPAY, Wallets, Payment banks, UPI and Credit cards AMEXVISAMASTERRUPAY. There are no charges for payment through Debit-card, Net-banking, Wallet and UPI. Payments through Credit Cards are subject to a "Convenience fee". The "Convenience Fee" applicable is entirely absorbed by LIC. The premium receipt for the payment through PortalPay Direct can be printed online and will also be e-mailed to the Policy Holder at the same time. Simultaneously successfulunsuccessful transaction message will be flashed. Policy holder can also opt for payment of premium through NACH mode where mandate to debit the premium from bank account as and when due is to be submitted. Detailed procedure is given under FQ section. Policy Status  Where Available Status of your policy indicates if your policy is in force or has lapsed due to non-payment of premium. It also provides other important information with respect to your policy, for your reference. The status of your policy is available at the branch that services your policies. It is also available through our Interactive Voice Response Systems in select cities  Click here to find out if your city is covered. In cities connected by our computerized networks the status will be available in any of the branches. Now the policy status of policies being serviced in the cities connected by network are also available through Internet  Click here to register for these services. In select cities online touch screen kiosks are also provided where you can view your policy status. Revival Of Lapsed Policies If your policy has lapsed due to non-payment of premiums within the due date, the terms and conditions of the policy contract are rendered void, till you revive your policy. A lapsed policy has to be revived by payment of the accumulated premiums with interest as well as giving the health requirements as required .  Click here for knowing more about the revival procedure and the different types of revival allowed Always keep your policy in force to ensure that your family gets their financial protection assured by your policy. However certain concessions dependent on the term for which you have paid the premiums are available with the exception of some plans for claims concession. Click here to know the concessions for delayed premium payment and for claims during the lapsed period. Availing Loans On Policies Many of our plans are of endowment type and you would be allowed to raise a loan against your policy should you require funds. You repay the loan with interest or continue paying the interest and allow the loan to be deducted at the time of the claim payments. Further loans on policies are also allowed after deduction of earlier out standings  Click here to find out more about loans on policies. Most financial institutions too allow loans against LIC policies based on the value LIC quotes on request from you. Surrender Value This is the value which is the amount payable to you should you decide to discontinue the policy and encash the same from LIC. Surrender value is payable only after three full years premiums are paid to LIC. More over if it is a participating policy the Bonus get attached to it as per prevalent rules. Surrender of policy is not recommended since the surrender value would always be proportionately low. Should you decide to go in for another insurance at this stage further insurance would be available to you at a much higher premium because your age would have advanced since taking out the earlier policy. Therefore retention of earlier policies and continuation of all policies without allowing them to lapse is the best strategy for continuing life insurance protection. Maturity, Survival Benefits, Disability And Death Claims When your Survival Benefits For Money back policies or maturity benefits are due, we send intimations to you in advance. However, if the survival benefit amount is less than or equal to Rs.500,000- the same will be sent to you directly without policy or discharge forms with a few exceptions. If such intimations have not come to you before the due date kindly inform us so that we may take necessary action  Click here to know about the claims procedure Policies Under Salary Savings Scheme If you have taken your policy under salary Saving Scheme please read the following suggestions  For each Salary Savings Scheme Policy your employer deducts the premium from your salary and sends a consolidated cheque for all the policies of the employees to a designated Branch of LIC, where all the policy files are maintained. You can find out which Branch of LIC your policy file will be serviced either from your Agent or from the pay roll department of your employer. You will need to know which branch of LIC services your policy because you will require their help in getting your MaturitySurvival Benefits, for any alterations like change of address and for availing loans etc. In case you are in a transferable job please inform the designated Branch of LIC about your new place of posting. After you join your new place of posting please ask your employer the LIC Branch where the premiums are being remitted by your office there and inform the LIC Branch which was servicing you earlier so that your policy files can be transferred. This way your records will be at correct place and will receive the services from us like maturity, in time. In case you are leaving your employer for a new job or joining another firm, you have the facility to either continue the policy under the Salary Savings Scheme of your new firm or to convert the payment mode into quarterly, half yearly or yearly mode. Always ensure the continuity of premium payments to avoid frequent revivals of policy. This may become a cumbersome process for a person who is in a transferable job. Please do not send any installments directly to us. Your premium must come through your employer only. We do not have systems to adjust single installments received from our policy holders. Otherwise please convert the mode into quarterly, halfyearly, or yearly and pay directly. This way you also get a discount on the premium payable. Leave a permanent local address with us so that we can reach you wherever you are even after many years. Disclaimer The information contained herein is only to guide you and does not purport to be binding on either party. The contractual implications of your policy will be subject to the terms and conditions of your proposal and the policy document issued to you. They may be also subject to the rules and regulations of the corporation notified from time to time which may be subject to revision and change. The contract will also be subject to the prevailing laws of the country. Helpline To ensure that you get the best out of your policy please read our guidelines carefully. Keep the policy bond safe. It will be required at the time of maturity or Survival Benefit. You will also require it if you are availing a loan or want to assign ypur policy. Inform your spouseParentsChildren as to where the policy is kept. When you shift residences, please inform the new address to us. Otherwise any communication we send to you, like premium notices, discharge vouchers, etc., will get delayed in reaching you. Ensure that the nominees name is correctly incorporated in the policy bond. Remember to pay your premium in time. Due months in which premium is due is given in policy bond. Check your policy bond and see if your date of birth is correctly given therein. In case you are handing over the policy bond to any person or office, including the LIC office please take a written acknowledgement. When your Survival Benefits For Money back policies or maturity benefits are due, we send intimations to your three months in advance. If such intimations have not come to your even within one month of the due date kindly inform us so that we may take necessary action. When in doubt call your agent or the Branch from where you took the policy. Our Branches are our Operating Units. Hence, for any servicing matter, contact the Servicing Branch of your policy. However, for obtaining general information, you can contact any of the Branches of LIC. Website Last modified date  Tue, 01 Apr 2025 103117 0000 Menu Display Plan NAV Foreign Units 1. UK 2. SriLanka 3. Fiji 4. Mauritius 5. Bahrain 6. Nepal 7. Kenindia Assurance 8. SICCI 9. Singapore 10. Bangladesh LIC Associates  Subsidiaries 1. Associate Companies 2. Subsidiaries Companies LIC Quick Tips Things you must know Why Life Insurance Why Invest Go Mobile Website Last Updated on  05122023 Menu Display Contact Us 91-22-68276827 91-8976862090 Branch Locator Contact Us Anti-Bribery And Anti-Corruption Policy Anti Fraud Policy Bima Bharosa Careers Citizens Charter Clia Scheme Benefits Copyright Policy Customer Education Central Vigilance Commission Website Link Download Forms View our Ads Menu Display 91-22-68276827 Employees Corner Enquiry of Outstanding Claims for the Current Year Equal Opportunity Policy Frequently Asked Questions Feedback Glossary Golden Jubilee Foundation - Community Development Grievance Redressal Help Menu Display 91-8976862090 Hyperlink Policy International Operations Associates Investee-AMRIT IRDAI Consumer Education Join Our Team LIC Act News NRI Centre LIC on Social Media Menu Display Branch Locator Photo Gallery Policy for protection of interests of policyholders Press-Release Privacy Policy Property Rajbhasha Patrika Retired Employees Portal RTI Center Sitemap Stewardship Policy  Disclosure Menu Display Swachh Bharat Campaign Swavalamban Tender Award Tenders Terms  Conditions Unclaimed Amounts of Policyholders Underwriting Philosophy Welcome Kit LIC Pension Fund Limited LIC Cards Services Limited LIC Mutual Fund Trustee Private Limited LIC Mutual Fund Asset Management Limited LIC Housing Finance Limited LICHFL Asset Management Company Limited Hidden For any grievances, email at cocomplaintslicindia.com Corporate Office  Life Insurance Corporation of India 'Yogakshema' , Jeevan Bima Marg, P.O. Box No19953, Mumbai  400 021. IRDAI Reg No- 512 For any query regarding this website, please contact the Web Information Manager Smt. Himali Ashish Manjrekar , Administrative Officer, cocomplaintslicindia.com Content on this website is published and managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India. Powered by PECS on Liferay DXP Copyright  2025 - All Rights Reserved - Official Website of Life Insurance Corporation of India. Disclaimer Disclaimer - Research Disclaimer Disclaimer - Twitter Term  Conditions Sitemap Privacy policy
